
Summarazing the points from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SmE4OwHztCc

1)DNS Lookup

The first step of navigating to a web page is finding where the assets for that page are located. If you navigate to https://example.com, the HTML page is located on the server with IP address of 93.184.216.34. If you’ve never visited this site, a DNS lookup must happen.

Your browser requests a DNS lookup, which is eventually fielded by a name server, which in turn responds with an IP address. After this initial request, the IP will likely be cached for a time, which speeds up subsequent requests by retrieving the IP address from the cache instead of contacting a name server again.


2)Response

Once we have an established connection to a web server, the browser sends an initial HTTP GET request on behalf of the user, which for websites is most often an HTML file. Once the server receives the request, it will reply with relevant response headers and the contents of the HTML.


3)Parsing

Once the browser receives the first chunk of data, it can begin parsing the information received. Parsing is the step the browser takes to turn the data it receives over the network into the DOM and CSSOM, which is used by the renderer to paint a page to the screen.

The DOM is the internal representation of the markup for the browser. The DOM is also exposed, and can be manipulated through various APIs in JavaScript.


4)Building the DOM tree

The first step is processing the HTML markup and building the DOM tree. HTML parsing involves tokenization and tree construction. HTML tokens include start and end tags, as well as attribute names and values. If the document is well-formed, parsing it is straightforward and faster. The parser parses tokenized input into the document, building up the document tree.


5)Render

Rendering steps include style, layout, paint and, in some cases, compositing. The CSSOM and DOM trees created in the parsing step are combined into a render tree which is then used to compute the layout of every visible element, which is then painted to the screen. In some cases, content can be promoted to their own layers and composited, improving performance by painting portions of the screen on the GPU instead of the CPU, freeing up the main thread.
